[CTOR-1740]-Refresh applications-wsus-nsclient (#4467)
centreon/centreon-documentation: pp/integrations/plugin-packs/procedures/applications-wsus-nsclient.md

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

## Connector dependencies

The following monitoring connectors will be installed when you install the **Microsoft WSUS** connector through the
**Configuration > Connectors > Monitoring Connectors** menu:
* [Base Pack](./base-generic.md)

## Pack assets

### Templates

The Monitoring Connector **Microsoft WSUS** brings 2 host templates:

* **App-Wsus-NRPE-custom**
* **App-Wsus-NSClient-05-Restapi-custom**

The connector brings the following service templates (sorted by the host template they are attached to):

<Tabs groupId="sync">
<TabItem value="App-Wsus-NRPE-custom" label="App-Wsus-NRPE-custom">

| Service Alias          | Service Template                                          | Service Description                                   |
|:-----------------------|:----------------------------------------------------------|:------------------------------------------------------|

> | Computers-Status       | App-Wsus-Computers-Status-NRPE-custom                     | Check computers status count                          |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Computers-Status       | App-Wsus-Computers-Status-NRPE-custom                     | Check the number of computers in each status                          |
```

| Server-Statistics      | App-Wsus-Server-Statistics-NRPE-custom                    | Check serveral WSUS server statistics                 |
| Synchronisation-Status | App-Wsus-Synchronisation-Status-NRPE-custom               | Check updates synchronisation with WSUS server status |
| Update-Status          | App-Wsus-Update-Status-NRPE-custom                        | Check updates status                                  |

> The services listed above are created automatically when the **App-Wsus-NRPE-custom** host template is used.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="App-Wsus-NSClient-05-Restapi-custom" label="App-Wsus-NSClient-05-Restapi-custom">

| Service Alias          | Service Template                                          | Service Description                                   |
|:-----------------------|:----------------------------------------------------------|:------------------------------------------------------|

> | Computers-Status       | App-Wsus-Computers-Status-NSClient05-Restapi-custom       | Check computers status count                          |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Computers-Status       | App-Wsus-Computers-Status-NSClient05-Restapi-custom       | Check the number of computers in each status                      |
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

3. [Deploy the configuration](/docs/monitoring/monitoring-servers/deploying-a-configuration). The service appears in the list of services, and on the **Resources Status** page. The command that is sent by the connector is displayed in the details panel of the service: it shows the values of the macros.

## How to check in the CLI that the configuration is OK and what are the main options for?

Once the plugin is installed, log into your Centreon poller's CLI using the
**centreon-engine** user account (`su - centreon-engine`). Test that the connector
is able to monitor a resource using a command like this one (replace the sample values by yours):

```bash
/usr/lib/centreon/plugins/centreon_nsclient_restapi.pl \
	--plugin=apps::nsclient::restapi::plugin \
	--mode=query \
	--hostname=10.0.0.1 \
	--port='' \
	--proto='' \
	--legacy-password=''  \
	--command=check_centreon_plugins \
	--arg='apps::microsoft::wsus::local::plugin' \
	--arg='updates-status' \
	--arg=' \
	--wsus-server="" \

> 	--wsus-port="" \

Reviewer: same as FR

2. Fill in the **Name**, **Alias** & **IP Address/DNS** fields according to your resource's settings.
3. Apply the **App-Wsus-NRPE-custom** template to the host. A list of macros appears. Macros allow you to define how the connector will connect to the resource, and to customize the connector's behavior.
4. Fill in the macros you want. Some macros are mandatory.

| Macro                     | Description                                                                                          | Default value         | Mandatory   |
|:--------------------------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:----------------------|:-----------:|
| NSCPRESTAPILEGACYPASSWORD |  Password to authenticate against the API if relevant                                                                                                     |                       |             |
| NSCPRESTAPIPROTO          | NSClient++ RestAPI protocol to use (Default: 'https')                                                                                                     |                       |             |

> | NRPEPORT                  | Port used to reach the NRPE server (default: '5666')                                                                                                     | 5666                  |             |
> | NSCPRESTAPIPORT           | NSClient++ RestAPI port (Default: '8443')                                                                                                     |                       |             |
> | NRPECLIENT                | NRPE Plugin binary to use                                                                                                     | check\_centreon\_nrpe |             |
> | NRPETIMEOUT               | Timeout value (Default: '30')                                                                                                     | 55                    |             |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| NRPEPORT                  | Port used to reach the NRPE server                                                                                                    | 5666                  |             |
| NSCPRESTAPIPORT           | NSClient++ RestAPI port (Default: '8443')                                                                                                     |                       |             |
| NRPECLIENT                | NRPE Plugin binary to use                                                                                                     | check\_centreon\_nrpe |             |
| NRPETIMEOUT               | Timeout value                                                                                                     | 55                    |             |
```
